Added Proxmox Cluster on Hetzner Cloud tutorial (#157)
hetzneronline/community-content: tutorials/proxmox-multi-node-cluster-with-hetzner-cloud-part1/01.en.md

---
SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
path: "/tutorials/proxmox-multi-node-cluster-with-hetzner-cloud-part1"
slug: "proxmox-multi-node-cluster-with-hetzner-cloud-part1"
date: "2030-01-01"
title: "Proxmox multi-node cluster with Hetzner Cloud, Part 1."
short_description: "As part of this tutorial series you will get deeper in initialization of multi-node Proxmox cluster with help of Hetzner Cloud infrastructure. Whether you want to use Plex and attach 1TB cloud drive for movies and shows or setup the cluster for your business (routing, test and production environments, VMs) - you are in the right topic."
tags: ["Proxmox", "Caddy", "Cloudflare", "ProxmoxFirewall", "ZeroTier", "AtlassianJira", "AtlassianConfluence", "Pritunl", "VPN"]
author: "TheRede"
author_link: "https://github.com/TheRede"

> author_img: ""

Reviewer: Normally we use here your GitHub avatar https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/23747233
If you do not want that avatar here just ignore this comment

author_description: "Get a feel of enterprise environment with Proxmox Cluster delpoyed in the cloud in a couple hours!"
language: "en"
available_languages: ["en"]
header_img: ""
---

> # Part 1. Quick installation of Proxmox on the nodes with help of Rescue system

Reviewer: You are not allowed to use # for the heading, please only use ##
You can set the title of the tutorial with the headers from above, it will be displayed on the website automatically.

Author: Re-worked

## Introduction

Our setup will be connected through Zerotier and include:
- Router instance - with Caddy and Cloudlare integration to secure the traffic, VPN for now;
- Dev server instance - Linux VMs and local services like API servers, Web-servers;
- Production server instance  - production services like Atlassian stack (Jira and Confluence) and other CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu LXC's.

Installation instructions on one node is available at Hetzner community tutorials :

> https://community.hetzner.com/tutorials/install-and-configure-proxmox_ve?title=Proxmox_VE/en

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://community.hetzner.com/tutorials/install-and-configure-proxmox_ve
```

Why Proxmox: 
1. It is free if you are not using enterprise features and, believe me, free version will be enough to use in even SMB environment in most of the cases;
2. LXC containers which give you more freedom by using less resources;
3. You can virtualize all the services you have (yes, VPN also included with TUN/TAP devices init!);
4. Quick snapshots @ ZFS/LVM-thin and deep backup/restore (a.e. nightly backups to Hetzner storage boxes) will give you less headache worrying over your data;
5. Powerful GUI: easy network management (devices, bridges, VLAN's), Firewall, 2FA for better security.

#### Why the cluster?
Proxmox cluster is a group of server instances connected under one GUI for: 
1. Centralized, web based management from one node (each node can manage any of the cluster node);
2. Easy migration of VMs and LXCs between server instances;
3. Firewall for all of the server instances managed from one place;
4. HA with 3 and more nodes.

#### Why Hetzner Cloud and not dedicated servers from auction or main page?
In short - we are using Cloud instances for low-cost better scaling and easy management, let me explain:

> 1. First and foremost - [it is less expensive](https://wiki.hetzner.de/index.php/CloudServer/en#Billing "it is less expensive"), in this example we use 3 instances with total cost of ~20 eur/month (with 20% VAT included:);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First and foremost - [it is less expensive](https://www.hetzner.com/cloud#pricing) "it is less expensive"), in this example we use 3 instances with total cost of ~20 €/month (with 20% VAT included:);
```

Author: Made the changes

1. Send the server to Rescue:
 - Go to Project servers main page;
 - Click on the "server-name";
 - Click on "Rescue" on the left vertical panel;
 - Click on "Enable rescue & power cycle", select "linux64" as RescueOS and your previously created SSH key, hot the red button below to reboot server to Rescue system;
 - Write down or save the password which appeared on the screen in case your SSH key will not work
 - Due to some technical requirement you need to click on "Power" on the left vertical panel, wait for 10sec and click on "Power on" so your server state in the management panel will change to "ON" in the top l eft corner.
2. SSH to your server from terminal or console of Hetzner (top left corner near server status, but paste command is not working properly there) with the command :
`ssh root@your-server-ip` ;
3. Answer "yes" to console asking to add host;
4. run `installimage`in the terminal window
5. Choose "Other" --> "Proxmox...Debian-Stretch" to install latest image available on the Hetzner server (they do real good job to keep it updated, so do not worry);

> 6. Hit "ok" --> "ok" and in the opened text editor find line starting with HOSTNAME, change it to `HOSTNAME your-desired-hostname.your-domain.your-ext`, a.e. we choose `HOSTNAME pve-router-fsn.xxxxxx.com` for our router instance, `HOSTNAME pve-dev-fsn.xxxxxx.com` for dev instance and `HOSTNAME pve-prod-fsn-xxxxx.com` for prod.

Reviewer: Please use the following https://github.com/hetzneronline/community-content/blob/master/tutorial-template.md#terminology if possible

Author: Renamed the hostnames according to the ruls

2. Convert the lv to thin-pool with `lvconvert --type thin-pool pve/data`, where data is the storage you created on previous step.
3. Login to Proxmox GUI, go to "Datacenter" -> "Storage" -> "Add" -> "LVM-thin", input id - the name of storage that will appear in the proxmox GUI, volume group - will pop you the suggestion ("pve", as we created), thin-pool - will pop you the suggestion too ("data", as we created). Hit "Add", you will see storage appeared in GUI under the node, if you click on it in the "server view".
P.S. if you would like to restrict storage from being available in GUI to other storages choose "Nodes" -> "Node" yo want it to be available to (mostly only itself)

#### Install Proxmox on other nodes 
1. Repeat the steps for all the server instances you plan to bring up

## Conclusion
At the end you have 3 working nodes of Proxmox @ Hetzner Cloud with LVM-thin storage spaces created with ease of Rescue System and help of Hetzner team which we will merge to cluster in the next chapters. 

> **License: MIT**

Reviewer: Please add the full license and sign it with your name/email (you can use a nickname)

Author: Could you please help me if this was done right?

Reviewer: You edited the global license file, this is not correct. What I meant can be found here https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hetzneronline/community-content/master/tutorial-template.md at the bottom `Contributor's Certificate of Origin........`

Author: Thanks, added according to the template
